# Classify physical activities performed by test subjects based on multimodal sensor data

In this notebook, I visualize and classify data from the MHEALTH dataset, which is available under this link: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/mhealth+dataset. This dataset was provided for the purpose of classifying body movements of test subjects based on a variety of sensor data that was collected via body sensors placed on the chest, wrist and ankle. Hence, this task belongs to the problem domain of Human Activity Recognition.

Information about the data: The sensors measure the motion experienced by diverse body parts, namely acceleration, rate of turn and magnetic field orientation. The sensor positioned on the chest also provides 2-lead ECG measurements, which can be potentially used for basic heart monitoring, checking for various arrhythmias or looking at the effects of exercise on the ECG. Some explanation about the data that is collected:

Acceleration: An accelerometer is a device that measures acceleration, which is the change in an object's velocity per second. Since velocity is measured in meters per second (m/s), acceleration is measured in meters per second per second, which is written as meters per second squared (m/s2). Positive values indicate an increase in velocity, negative values a decrease, and zero values indicate constant velocity. Accelerometers measure in the x, y and z directions separately. (https://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/references/accelerometer). Acceleration depends on gravity, which is why depending on orientation, the X, Y, and Z accelerometers can have a non-zero acceleration readings (- 9,8 m/s2) even when not moving.
Turn rate: A gyroscope measures the rate of rotation in deg/s around the x,y and z axes. For any positive axis on the device, clockwise rotation outputs negative values, and counterclockwise rotation outputs positive values. (https://de.mathworks.com/help/supportpkg/android/ref/gyroscope.html)
Magnetic Field Orientation: A magnetometer block reads the strength of the magnetic field around a sensor device along the x,y and z axes.
This notebook consists of two major parts, the first being an exploratory data analysis and the second being the modelling part in which I try to learn machine learning models that predict the physical activity performed by a test subject based on the multimodal sensing data. But before we jump right into EDA, the data needs to be read in. We are provided with one log file per test subject that contains each subject's measurements. Let's create a function that reads in the log file into a pandas dataframe so that subsequently, all measurements can be merged.
